README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img style="width:128px;min-width:128px;max-width:128px;height:auto" src="assets/YaadeIcon.png" alt="yaade-icon"/>
</p>

<h1 align="center"><span style="color:#48bb78">Yaade</span> - Yet Another API Development Environment</h1>

Yaade is an open-source, self-hosted, collaborative API development environment.

<img src="assets/dark-mode.png" alt="dark-mode-screenshot"/>

## 📚 Documentation

Visit [docs.yaade.io](https://docs.yaade.io).

## 🤔 Why did you develop Yaade?

I was looking for a self-hosted Postman alternative so that API collections can easily be shared between teammates. Even though popular solutions like <a href="https://hoppscotch.io/de/">Hoppscotch</a> exist, their self-hosted app does not come with authentication and relies on Firebase for persistency. Yaade is developed from the ground up with self-hosting and security in mind. That means sensitive information in API requests can safely be stored on your own server!

## 🌟 Features

1. Self-hosted: data never leaves your own server
2. Multi-user: manage users and their permissions
3. Persistent: even across container or server restarts
4. Easy single-file data import / export
5. Requests are executed on your machine so you can call localhost as well as remote servers
6. Documentation: Annotate your requests and collections using markdown
7. Scripts: Run scripts as cron jobs or via the API. Execute requests or run tests all in pure JavaScript
8. Import collections from OpenAPI or Postman. Export to all different languages and frameworks.
9. Most importantly: dark mode default

## ⚡ Install

To have the best experience with Yaade run the docker container on your server and install the browser extension on your local machine.

### 1. 🐋 Docker

```bash
docker volume create yaade
docker run -d --restart=always -p 9339:9339 -e YAADE_ADMIN_USERNAME=admin -v yaade:/app/data --name yaade esperotech/yaade:latest
```

The default password is `password`. After login go to ⚙️ > Account and change the password.

### 2. 🔧 Extension

Yaade uses a browser extension as a proxy to enable CORS requests. Install the extension using your browsers extension store. Currently only a chrome extension is available. You can find it <a href="https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/yaade-extension/mddoackclclnbkmofficmmepfnadolfa">here</a>. Then open it and input your server URL, eg. `https://yaade.example.com/`. From that point all requests originating from your Yaade browser tabs will be proxied through the extension.

## ⬆️ Upgrade

To upgrade the docker container with a new version, first stop the running container, pull the latest version and start a new container with the old volume.

```bash
docker rm -f yaade
docker pull esperotech/yaade:latest
docker run -d --restart=always -p 9339:9339 -e YAADE_ADMIN_USERNAME=admin -v yaade:/app/data --name yaade esperotech/yaade:latest
```

## 💾 Technology

1. SPA built with TypeScript, React and Vite.
2. Backend built with Kotlin.
3. H2 file-based database.
4. Browser extension with plain JavaScript.

## 🖥️ Local development

1. Install the required dependencies
    - Java 11
    - Kotlin
    - Node >= 16
2. Clone the repository
3. Install the project specific dependencies
```bash
cd scripts/
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```
4. Start the server on port 9339 using your IDE of choice (I use IntelliJ IDEA)
    - you can also run it by using the jar file directly `$ java -jar server/build/libs/yaade-server-1.0-SNAPSHOT`
    - note that you must set the environment variable `YAADE_ADMIN_USERNAME` to run
5. Start the vite dev server on port 9338
```bash
cd client/
npm run dev
```
6. Start the dev-proxy on port 9337
```bash
cd dev-proxy/
node index.js
```
7. Now open your browser and visit http://localhost:9337

## 🔨 Build

```bash
cd scripts/
chmod +x build.sh
./build.sh
```

## Screenshots

### 🌙 Dark mode

<img src="assets/dark-mode.png" alt="dark-mode-screenshot"/>

### ☀️ Light mode

<img src="assets/light-mode.png" alt="light-mode-screenshot"/>

### More Screenshots

<div style="width:100%;min-width:100%;display:flex;flex-wrap:wrap;justify-content:space-evenly">
    <img style="width:48%;min-width:48%;max-width:48%;height:auto;margin-bottom:20px" src="assets/documentation.png" alt="documentation-screenshot"/>
    <img style="width:48%;min-width:48%;max-width:48%;height:auto;margin-bottom:20px" src="assets/environments.png" alt="environments-screenshot"/>
    <img style="width:48%;min-width:48%;max-width:48%;height:auto" src="assets/scripts.png" alt="scripts-screenshot"/>
    <img style="width:48%;min-width:48%;max-width:48%;height:auto" src="assets/user-management.png" alt="user-management-screenshot"/>
</div>

## 🤝  How can I contribute?

Your contribution is very welcome! First open an issue about the topic you want to contribute on, eg. adding a new feature, bugfixing or refactoring. We will then discuss further details. Eventually, I will review your Pull Request and merge / release it.

Commit message:

Add multistage docker build so that it has self dependent build process

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img style="width:128px;min-width:128px;max-width:128px;height:auto" src="assets/YaadeIcon.png" alt="yaade-icon"/>
</p>

<h1 align="center"><span style="color:#48bb78">Yaade</span> - Yet Another API Development Environment</h1>

Yaade is an open-source, self-hosted, collaborative API development environment.

<img src="assets/dark-mode.png" alt="dark-mode-screenshot"/>

## 📚 Documentation

Visit [docs.yaade.io](https://docs.yaade.io).

## 🤔 Why did you develop Yaade?

I was looking for a self-hosted Postman alternative so that API collections can easily be shared between teammates. Even though popular solutions like <a href="https://hoppscotch.io/de/">Hoppscotch</a> exist, their self-hosted app does not come with authentication and relies on Firebase for persistency. Yaade is developed from the ground up with self-hosting and security in mind. That means sensitive information in API requests can safely be stored on your own server!

## 🌟 Features

1. Self-hosted: data never leaves your own server
2. Multi-user: manage users and their permissions
3. Persistent: even across container or server restarts
4. Easy single-file data import / export
5. Requests are executed on your machine so you can call localhost as well as remote servers
6. Documentation: Annotate your requests and collections using markdown
7. Scripts: Run scripts as cron jobs or via the API. Execute requests or run tests all in pure JavaScript
8. Import collections from OpenAPI or Postman. Export to all different languages and frameworks.
9. Most importantly: dark mode default

## ⚡ Install

To have the best experience with Yaade run the docker container on your server and install the browser extension on your local machine.

### 1. 🐋 Docker

```bash
docker volume create yaade
docker run -d --restart=always -p 9339:9339 -e YAADE_ADMIN_USERNAME=admin -v yaade:/app/data --name yaade esperotech/yaade:latest
```

The default password is `password`. After login go to ⚙️ > Account and change the password.

### 2. 🔧 Extension

Yaade uses a browser extension as a proxy to enable CORS requests. Install the extension using your browsers extension store. Currently only a chrome extension is available. You can find it <a href="https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/yaade-extension/mddoackclclnbkmofficmmepfnadolfa">here</a>. Then open it and input your server URL, eg. `https://yaade.example.com/`. From that point all requests originating from your Yaade browser tabs will be proxied through the extension.

## ⬆️ Upgrade

To upgrade the docker container with a new version, first stop the running container, pull the latest version and start a new container with the old volume.

```bash
docker rm -f yaade
docker pull esperotech/yaade:latest
docker run -d --restart=always -p 9339:9339 -e YAADE_ADMIN_USERNAME=admin -v yaade:/app/data --name yaade esperotech/yaade:latest
```

## 💾 Technology

1. SPA built with TypeScript, React and Vite.
2. Backend built with Kotlin.
3. H2 file-based database.
4. Browser extension with plain JavaScript.

## 🖥️ Local development

1. Install the required dependencies
    - Java 11
    - Kotlin
    - Node >= 16
2. Clone the repository
3. Install the project specific dependencies
```bash
cd scripts/
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```
4. Start the server on port 9339 using your IDE of choice (I use IntelliJ IDEA)
    - you can also run it by using the jar file directly `$ java -jar server/build/libs/yaade-server-1.0-SNAPSHOT`
    - note that you must set the environment variable `YAADE_ADMIN_USERNAME` to run
5. Start the vite dev server on port 9338
```bash
cd client/
npm run dev
```
6. Start the dev-proxy on port 9337
```bash
cd dev-proxy/
node index.js
```
7. Now open your browser and visit http://localhost:9337

## 🐋🔨 Docker Build

Build it for AMD64 
```bash
docker build --platform linux/amd64 --tag yaade:latest .
```

Build it for AMD64
```bash
docker build --platform linux/arm64 --tag yaade:latest .
```

Build it for AMD64 and ARM64 with docker buildx
```bash
docker buildx build --push --platform linux/arm64,linux/amd64 --tag yaade:latest .
```

## Screenshots

### 🌙 Dark mode

<img src="assets/dark-mode.png" alt="dark-mode-screenshot"/>

### ☀️ Light mode

<img src="assets/light-mode.png" alt="light-mode-screenshot"/>

### More Screenshots

<div style="width:100%;min-width:100%;display:flex;flex-wrap:wrap;justify-content:space-evenly">
    <img style="width:48%;min-width:48%;max-width:48%;height:auto;margin-bottom:20px" src="assets/documentation.png" alt="documentation-screenshot"/>
    <img style="width:48%;min-width:48%;max-width:48%;height:auto;margin-bottom:20px" src="assets/environments.png" alt="environments-screenshot"/>
    <img style="width:48%;min-width:48%;max-width:48%;height:auto" src="assets/scripts.png" alt="scripts-screenshot"/>
    <img style="width:48%;min-width:48%;max-width:48%;height:auto" src="assets/user-management.png" alt="user-management-screenshot"/>
</div>

## 🤝  How can I contribute?

Your contribution is very welcome! First open an issue about the topic you want to contribute on, eg. adding a new feature, bugfixing or refactoring. We will then discuss further details. Eventually, I will review your Pull Request and merge / release it.
